# Memory management

## Algorithms

### Direct Memory Access
* One problem with direct access is that when you release some memory space you get holes in the middle of your memory, and that's very hard to fix.

*The main problem is that our program can now access any part of the memory, and we cannot isolate tasks.
-* That is a major problem. It is the reason why we don't give Direct Memory Access to most programs

### Indirect access
* We only give each program a logical representation of memory.
* Contiguous slots in logical memory are not necessarily contiguous in physical memory.
* This requires having a mapping/correspondance table between logical memory and physical memory.
* The problem with this system is that the time it takes to access Memory is unpredictable
* Other problem : the mapping table can get huge (2^32 * 8 B = 32 GB for 64 bits systems). How do we limit the size of the mapping table ?

#### Indirect access allocation algorithm
1. Allocate nb of contiguous slots in log memory
2. Allocate nb of (non contiguous) slots in physical memory & update mapping table
3. Return base @ of step 1

### Make the mapping table smaller 
We need to map out several slots with one entry in the mapping table, by managing blocks of slots. How do we do that ?
We split our logical memory space into blocks. Each of these blocks will be mapped to blocks on physical memory. Each block only needs to be used partially.

## What happens when we use shmget
A page is allocated in the program's logical memory
That page's correspondance in physical memory can be pointed to by multiple different mapping tables.
